README.md, before:

# Exploring COVID-19 Vaccine Effectiveness

![](img/animation.gif)

## Overview 
This analysis aims to explore the relationship between Covid-19 vaccinations and deaths attributed to Covid-19 in the U.S. between 5/31/21 - 11/30/21 to analyze the effectiveness of the Covid-19 vaccination over time.

## Data

Data related to the Covid-19 vaccination was sourced from the Center For Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and data related to Covid-19 deaths was sourced from Johns Hopkins University (JHU).

To begin to assess the effectiveness of the vaccination over time, the % of the vaccinated population over 18 years of age (CDC) is compared to Covid related deaths per 100k (JHU). The data was broken down by U.S. region (West, Midwest, South, Northeast) based on the [Census Bureau regional divisions](https://www2.census.gov/geo/pdfs/maps-data/maps/reference/us_regdiv.pdf), and a snapshot was of data was taken at the of each month to create a more accurate representation. Because the JHU cumulates deaths, the time series was adjusted to compute the difference in death figures between dates. 

**CDC Data**
```
https://data.cdc.gov/Vaccinations/COVID-19-Vaccinations-in-the-United-States-County/8xkx-amqh
```

**Johns Hopkins University Data**
```
https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/tree/f57525e860010f6c5c0c103fd97e2e7282b480c8
```

## Running The Code 

A [Makefile](./Makefile) has been created to streamline code compilation. To execute, clone the vaccines repository to your local drive & run the makefile outlined below.

1. Create a data directory:
```
make data
```
2. Download and compress the CDC data.
```
make cdc
```
3. Create a CSV file with sampled CDC data.
```
make vaccines
```
4. Download deaths data from JHU and create CSV files

```
make deaths
```
5. Merge the CDC vaccination dataset with the JHU deaths dataset and clean the dataset to remove non U.S. data.
```
make merge
```
5. Create a time series of scatter plots and save .png files to the 'img' directory
```
make scatters
```
6. Generate an animation using the plots generated above
```
make animation
```

Additionally, the make file allows you to:
* Do all of the above with one command by running ```make all```
* Create a single scatter plot for EDA purposes with ```make test```
* Delete the data and img directories to start fresh with ```make clean```


## Output
Assuming all is well, the output should look something like this:
![](img/animation.gif)

## Analysis

As a more significant percentage of the population becomes vaccinated, deaths increase over time. However, this does not consider the increase in Covid-19 cases over the same time period. Regionally, the South has a much lower vaccination rate among its population but a much higher increase in deaths, indicating that the opposite may be true. As a more significant percentage of a population becomes vaccinated, deaths trend downward.  Overall, there is much more to uncover within the data and areas for additional exploration.

## Future Considerations

**Dataset**  
  * Compare different regions with similar population sizes 
  * Compare individual areas with higher vaccination rates against similar areas with lower vaccination rates
  * Subset data to explore effectiveness across different age ranges 
  * Segment date ranges and countes to align with peaks and valleys in Covid spread

**Code**  
  * Add regression line to better visualize trends in data
  * Explore the use of different chart types (map, bar chart, line graph)

### Contributors

![alt text](https://github.com/ds5010/vaccines/raw/MatthewjRay_Assigment05/Screen%20Shot%202022-03-01%20at%204.29.38%20PM.png)

[Philip Bogden](https://github.com/pbogden) | [Sophia Cofone](https://github.com/sophiacofone) | [Qiwei "Jerry" Hu](https://github.com/JerryV77) |
[Connor Lynch](https://github.com/CCLynch) | [Philip Mathieu](https://github.com/PhilipMathieu) | [Bridget Mohler](https://github.com/b-mohler) |
[Matthew Ray](https://github.com/MatthewjRay) | [Kayne Ryan](https://github.com/kayneryan) | [Zeng Yune](https://github.com/zyune) |

Commit message:

Mention main_with_data branch

README.md, after:

# Exploring COVID-19 Vaccine Effectiveness

![](img/animation.gif)

## Overview 
This analysis aims to explore the relationship between Covid-19 vaccinations and deaths attributed to Covid-19 in the U.S. between 5/31/21 - 11/30/21 to analyze the effectiveness of the Covid-19 vaccination over time.

## Data

Data related to the Covid-19 vaccination was sourced from the Center For Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and data related to Covid-19 deaths was sourced from Johns Hopkins University (JHU).

To begin to assess the effectiveness of the vaccination over time, the % of the vaccinated population over 18 years of age (CDC) is compared to Covid related deaths per 100k (JHU). The data was broken down by U.S. region (West, Midwest, South, Northeast) based on the [Census Bureau regional divisions](https://www2.census.gov/geo/pdfs/maps-data/maps/reference/us_regdiv.pdf), and a snapshot was of data was taken at the of each month to create a more accurate representation. Because the JHU cumulates deaths, the time series was adjusted to compute the difference in death figures between dates. 

**CDC Data**
```
https://data.cdc.gov/Vaccinations/COVID-19-Vaccinations-in-the-United-States-County/8xkx-amqh
```

**Johns Hopkins University Data**
```
https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/tree/f57525e860010f6c5c0c103fd97e2e7282b480c8
```

## Running The Code 

A [Makefile](./Makefile) has been created to streamline code compilation. To execute, clone the vaccines repository to your local drive & run the makefile outlined below.

_Note: If you would prefer to skip steps 1-5 (saving time but not directly accessing the authoritative data sources), clone the ```main_with_data``` branch._

1. Create a data directory:
```
make data
```
2. Download and compress the CDC data.
```
make cdc
```
3. Create a CSV file with sampled CDC data.
```
make vaccines
```
4. Download deaths data from JHU and create CSV files

```
make deaths
```
5. Merge the CDC vaccination dataset with the JHU deaths dataset and clean the dataset to remove non U.S. data.
```
make merge
```
6. Create a time series of scatter plots and save .png files to the 'img' directory
```
make scatters
```
7. Generate an animation using the plots generated above
```
make animation
```

Additionally, the make file allows you to:
* Do all of the above with one command by running ```make all```
* Create a single scatter plot for EDA purposes with ```make test```
* Delete the data and img directories to start fresh with ```make clean```


## Output
Assuming all is well, the output should look something like this:
![](img/animation.gif)

## Analysis

As a more significant percentage of the population becomes vaccinated, deaths increase over time. However, this does not consider the increase in Covid-19 cases over the same time period. Regionally, the South has a much lower vaccination rate among its population but a much higher increase in deaths, indicating that the opposite may be true. As a more significant percentage of a population becomes vaccinated, deaths trend downward.  Overall, there is much more to uncover within the data and areas for additional exploration.

## Future Considerations

**Dataset**  
  * Compare different regions with similar population sizes 
  * Compare individual areas with higher vaccination rates against similar areas with lower vaccination rates
  * Subset data to explore effectiveness across different age ranges 
  * Segment date ranges and countes to align with peaks and valleys in Covid spread

**Code**  
  * Add regression line to better visualize trends in data
  * Explore the use of different chart types (map, bar chart, line graph)

### Contributors

![alt text](https://github.com/ds5010/vaccines/raw/MatthewjRay_Assigment05/Screen%20Shot%202022-03-01%20at%204.29.38%20PM.png)

[Philip Bogden](https://github.com/pbogden) | [Sophia Cofone](https://github.com/sophiacofone) | [Qiwei "Jerry" Hu](https://github.com/JerryV77) |
[Connor Lynch](https://github.com/CCLynch) | [Philip Mathieu](https://github.com/PhilipMathieu) | [Bridget Mohler](https://github.com/b-mohler) |
[Matthew Ray](https://github.com/MatthewjRay) | [Kayne Ryan](https://github.com/kayneryan) | [Zeng Yune](https://github.com/zyune) |
